---
title: "Using Todoist to manage and prioritize individual work"
published: true
---
**Alternative title**: One thing I've learned is not to trust myself to 'try harder'. Trying harder is for suckers and the self-deluded. - [c.g.p grey](https://www.cgpgrey.com/blog/dialing-down)

**Alternative alternative title**: “for several years, I’ve been in complete charge of everything in my life” - [IASIP](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5ncWCEfn5Rw)

**tldr;** when used properly, todoist is a great way to manage work that’s not on a JIRA board. It can help track and prioritize tasks, meet deadlines, and provide a feeling of accomplishment even when doing less visible work.

After working at APT for a couple years, I’m taking on more responsibilities outside of my normal team work. At first, I didn’t love these aspects of work - I had a hard time keeping track of them. They also failed to give me the sense of accomplishment or pride in my work that I experienced from doing teamwork and moving tasks through a JIRA board. I tried using Trello as suggested by a co-worker, but it never stuck with me. My go-to strategies were either to complete tasks whenever I thought of them, or try to keep them in my head to remember later. In addition to being destined to lose track of things, I ended up spending too much mental energy on remembering small things. This made it harder to fully focus on the work in front of me, as I had too many random thoughts in my head.

I was able to find a system that worked for me after listening to [Cortex](https://www.relay.fm/cortex). In this system, I quickly record actionable thoughts that pop up, freeing up mental energy for the task at hand. I plan out what I want to get done in a day without regard to what JIRA board the work is on. And just as importantly, I feel a stronger sense of accomplishment at the end of the day regardless of whether I was doing team work or not.

This system exists within [Todoist](https://todoist.com/), a feature-heavy task manager. 


# My Todoist Workflow
## What I Track
Ideally, I’d just do work whenever I become aware of it (e.g. when something actionable comes up in slack, or when something pops into my head). This is only possible when the work is reasonably quick and when I’m not focused on something that requires full mental engagement (e.g. programming). 

If I am in the middle of something complex, or if the idea would take too much time to complete, I quickly add it to my 'inbox' in Todoist.

## Daily
Every morning, I’ll look at all of my tasks that are ‘due’ that day, as well as those in my 'inbox'. I cut this down to a number I have a fair chance of accomplishing, then assign them relative priorities. During the day, I only look at my ‘filter’ that contains those tasks - I’ve found that seeing my entire backlog causes my mind to go back-and-forth between everything I have to do. 

During the day, I try to finish one task completely before moving on to another to reduce the cost of context switching. If I end up finishing all that I had for the day, I can easily pull in something else.

## Mondays
Every Monday, I’ll do a ‘backlog review’ where I re-prioritize tasks in my projects. I make sure to archive tasks that I no longer plan to do - keeping a small backlog is nice.

## Fridays
Every Friday I record my self-contributions for the week, as well as write feedback for the people I’ve worked with. I couldn't manage to do this before my new system because I wasn't able to effectively prioritize this against team work.

# Advantages against other systems
I know there's a lot of different systems, from complex software to .txt files that people here are successful with. I'm not trying to get commissions from Doist, but I'll call out some things I like about todoist.

After planning my tasks for the day, my task filter shows me only the things I'm working on that day. So I'm not distracted by visually seeing my backlog over and over.
The "inbox" is really useful for quickly writing down an idea, and it's easy to flesh it out later (even when I'm not in the office - there's a phone app)
The NLP is actually really powerful and useful, and there's a keyboard shortcut for basically everything
Subprojects and subtasks help with detailed tasking when necessary
Using markdown / hyperlinks in tasks

# Addendum
I've been running Todoist [as if it's a desktop app](https://windowsreport.com/run-website-as-desktop-app/) (so I can see it in my task bar, alt-tab better, etc.). This has been helpful in keeping it a key part of my workflow.

This ended up being fairly similar to the [GTD method](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Getting_Things_Done). I’ve never actually read anything from David Allen, but he had a strong influence on the co-host of a couple podcasts I listen to, so many of the ideas from GTD had a second-hand influence on me.

I've also recently been 'snoozing' my slack notifications all day, and that's been pretty helpful to avoid context-switching (and slack lets people 'send a notification anyways' if something is actually urgent).
